Sarah is 18 years old. She decided to take some time off before starting university. Her parents were disappointed that Sarah didn't want to start uni right away. Sarah's exam results were due out in a week. She was sure she knew how she had done. Her parents had made her promise to phone with the results. They had always been supportive of her. Sarah had decided to spend some time in the UK. On the day of her trip Sarah arrived at the airport. She was so excited. Sarah boarded the plane and found her seat. As she sat down Sarah found her seatbelt was broken. She called for a flight attendant to ask to be moved to a new seat. The flight attendant told Sarah she would check to see what seats were available. When she returned she told Sarah that she would be moved to business class. Sarah was thrilled. As the plane sped down the runway Sarah noticed how jittery she felt. When the seatbelt light went out Sarah unfastened her seatbelt and pushed her seat back. The seat was so comfortable. There was a young woman sitting inthe seat next to Sarah. Sarah decided to start a conversation with her. The woman told her she was travelling for work. As Sarah told her about her travel plans she could tell how interested the woman was in the conversation. An hour into the flight lunchwas served. There was a choice between fish and beef. Sarah had once gotten food poisoning from bad fish, so she chose the beef. As Sarah smelled the food she realised she was hungry. Sarah noticed that the meat had an unusual flavour. Sarah had a short stop-over in Dubai. Walking down the concourse, Sarah saw a young man take an old woman’s bag. As she walked on further, Sarah saw that one of the stores was having a big sale. She couldn’t resist having a quick look. She picked out a top to try on. As she came out of the changerooms, Sarah overheard someone talking about how she looked. As Sarah left the store, she found some money on the ground. As she was putting the note in her pocket, Sarah heard a boarding call for her flight over the PA system. Looking around Sarah realised she had no idea where her gate was. She hurried over to an information desk to ask for directions and she started running toward her gate. She got there just in time! Sarah boarded the plane for the next leg of her trip. The man in the seat next to her seemed to have a nasty cold. Sarah got up from her seat and asked the flight attendant if she could be moved. The flight attendant told her that she would have to stay in her allocated seat. Sarah returned to her seat. She was sure shewould catch his cold. During the flight Sarah got up to go to the toilet. There was a long queue. When Sarah reached the front, she was surprised by the condition of the toilet. She moved back to her own seat and reflected on her trip so far. She had been surprised by the quality of the service on the flight.