In the beginning times, Taka and her younger brother Toro were rowing through a storm and crashed upon a rocky island in the sea. Taka stepped ashore and the sharp rocks cut her feet. Everywhere her blood touched, life sprung forth. The grasses and the trees took root and the people, our ancestors, arose from the drops of blood.

Our ancestors learned from Taka and became her friends, and this made Toro feel jealous. She was always too busy playing with them.

"Oh-ho," cackled Puna, the bird in the palm, "Toro, who will you play with now?"

Toro was saddened by Puna's mocking words. He decided to make his own island. "It will be a new and BETTER island," Toro thought with a grin, "so then everyone will want to play with ME!"

Toro climbed up the palm and with his knife cut down the leaves. These he wove together, and bound with rope.

"Oh-ho," cackled Puna, "That is a raft, not an island, and you have not even performed the proper rites!"

But Toro was clever. He said, "If I promise to feed you and your family until your bellies are full, will you help me? If I give something to you, you must return the favor."

"Well," said Puna, "Our bellies are never full. But what is your plan?"

Placing his fingers in his mouth, Toro blew a whistle so piercing that Puna fell from her perch in terror. From out of the jungle came a mass of red ants.

"Why do you call us?" they demanded in their many tiny voices.

"I am building a new island," Toro announced, "And if you help me you can be the first to live there and can take the best homes for yourselves."

The ants agreed, and soon thousands of them came marching out of the jungle, carrying palm leaves on their backs. Toro continued to weave the leaves and the raft grew so large that it was bigger than Taka's island. The ants crawled up onto the raft.

Then, from the sky, dropped Puna and her family. When the birds were satisfied from feasting upon the ants, they grabbed hold of the edges of the new island and lifted it off of Taka's beach and into the sea. They pulled four times under the watch of the moon, and five under the watch of the sun, and they came to a place where the fish were many.

Toro swam down, down, and bound his island to the sea floor so it would not float away. Toro covered the island with soil and built up huge mountains from the land. The sea was pleased with Toro's new island and so sent coconuts to its shores. The coconuts sprouted into thick groves of palms. Toro was very proud. "My island is now the best of them all," he said to himself.

Yet still only Puna came, and that was to see whether there were more of the tasty ants. Toro was disappointed. He reached beneath the waves and found himself a crab. Toro said to the crab, "You must carry news of this island to my sister's people."

The crab, whose name was Kawa, narrowed his beady eyes and spoke, "That is a long way, and I am too lazy to swim that far."

Puna flew down and ate Kawa, because the lazy are always punished for their carelessness. Puna then carried Kawa's shell, filled with Toro's whispers of the island, and dropped it onto Taka's beach. All across Taka's island, the people began to speak of the rumors.

Hoki told his wife Otta, "At the other island, there are so many fish there is no room for them all in the sea. They leap out of the water and into a man's arms like a woman. There are also many palms at the other island, and here there are more neighbours than trees. This is not as it should be."

Over the crashing of the waves, Otta did not hear her husband's words clearly. Otta went and told her sister Kohe, "My husband speaks of other women in his arms! He should not have broken my spirit in this way. If he wishes to go to the new place alone, I will not be sorry."

The people of Taka's island readied their boats together. When these people, our ancestors, came to Toro's island, the island that we call home, they saw that it was all that had been promised.

Taka was not happy that Toro had taken her playmates away. And so she sent the summer storms, making travel dangerous between our two homes. But Taka was an older sister, and like all older sisters, she loved her younger brother in spite of herself. And so she sent the winter trade winds which bring us prosperity and happiness.

We remember this, and today we praise the gods for our good fortune and celebrate.