In the beginning times, Mata and Pata had run away together from the place of their people, far away beyond the realm of the sky, farther away than the stars stretch. The elder ones had not approved of their marriage and so they fled to our world here, which was then only a vast plain. They had with them their Child, Muki, who was the source of their greatest joys.

Here Mata rested with the sleeping Child at her breast, but the rest was short. Their people were hunting them and Muki would slow them when they most needed speed.

Pata took some black clay from his pack. Mata breathed upon the clay and shaped it with her hands, rolling it warm and round. Pata shaped it into a hammock with his hands, weaving its strands together, and hung it on the sky. Mata placed Muki carefully within the hammock, and pressed kisses to the Child's cheek. Then Mata plucked hairs from her own head, and hairs from Pata's chin, and scattered them across the ground. Pata struck his flint, which sent a bright, fiery spark up among the stars. The spark wandered about, bringing warmth and light to the world.

Mata and Pata swore to return one day for Muki. They whispered to her, "Sleep deeply, grow, and be loved."

When Muki woke from dreaming, wanting Mata's breast for her milk and Pata's steady hands for their comfort, they were no longer there. The Child beat her fists upon the earth until it quaked and shuddered. Muki cried and cried, until the spark in the sky darted away, leaving the Child and the world in darkness.

Muki grabbed fists full of clay and scraped out steep valleys in the land. The Child's tantrum churned up the hills as her kicking heels pounded in the earth. Her blood stained the clay, giving life, and she cried huge tears that became the Great River.

From the hairs of Mata's head, a forest of trees grew. The trees grew strong and tall and fruit of many colors sprouted from their branches.

On the shores of the Great River, the hairs of Pata's chin became spiders and crawled up from their bed of clay, moving on eight long, wiry legs. Muki snatched up a spider and pulled off each of its legs, one by one. The spider, wriggling from the pain, became a snake. Muki then tore the snake in two, dropping half into the water
This half-snake was now the swimming Fish. Muki tried to eat the other half, but Snake bared its fangs full of venom and Muki spat it out with a retch.

When another spider crawled up, this time Muki tore off four of its legs. This spider grew large and became the strong Wolf, which bounded away into the trees.

"Do not go near the Child" called the animals to the next spider who crawled up from the river. But this one was too clever to be caught. Six of its wiry legs twisted around each other to form wings that began to flap. Soaring up above the forest, this spider became the clever Bird.

Then the last Spider summoned together the Snake, the Fish, the Wolf, and the Bird in the forest by the Great River. It was decided that the animals ought to live in different ways. Fish would have the winding river, Wolf would have the shadowed forests, and Snake would have the broad plains. Bird claimed the open skies for itself. "And I will have the hiding places," said Spider.

As they talked, Muki continued to shake the ground. Spider asked, "How will we stop the destruction of our homes?"

Bird said, "I flew high and fast, and I heard shouting voices in the sky. We should give the Child to these other people who search for her."

Snake disagreed, "We should not give the Child to those people, because they are not her people and seek to do her harm."

Wolf said, "Then we must be the Child's people, for it is right to look after children in need."

So Snake, Wolf, and Spider climbed across the Child's belly to tickle her until she laughed. Muki fell back onto the earth, happy and quiet.

Yet the world was still in darkness, as there was no light in the sky. Spider caught sight of the wandering spark in the sky and shouted, "You! You shall be the Sun for our world. When you light the skies and the land Muki will wake, and when you rest and the world darkens, Muki will sleep." The Sun shone proudly, for it is good to have purpose, and it brought the changing of the seasons.

Then out of the clay came our people, those who are our ancestors, because the land around Muki was good and fertile. The Child called Muki became the mountain that protects our village. We knew then as we do today that the Child must never be alone again, and we wait for Mata and Pata to return for her.

And when our people say today to our children, "Sleep deeply, grow, and be loved," we say it so that Muki hears this too and knows that she is not alone.