Sarah and James live together in a small apartment in Melbourne. James is an up-and-coming executive in a top city firm where Sarah also works as a highly competent personal assistant. This particular Saturday is extremely important because they are entertaining James’s employer; James’s promotion is at stake and he wishes to make a good impression. James has been awaiting this for a long time, and the possibility of a raise is crucial for their plans to start a family. Sarah has promised to cook a beautiful three-course meal and to make it a successful evening altogether. 

They spend the morning shopping at Sarah’s favorite, exclusive delicatessens. Sarah even gets her hair done for the occasion while James takes the opportunity to choose the appropriate wine. That morning, James also cleans the house, vacuuming through the entire house and arranging some flowers. Sarah has set up the kitchen and makes some initial preparations for dinner, which she will finish later that afternoon. She then makes lunch and they take a break together.

The phone rings. It’s a couple of Sarah’s mates from squash; she hangs up and rushes into the bedroom. She yells to James that the girls are down at the Royal and that she’s just going to pop down and have a few drinks with them. She gives him a quick peck on the cheek and says she won’t be long.

Feeling good about the preparations for that evening, and confident it was going to run smoothly, James settles down for an afternoon of Wide World of Sports. This week they’re crossing live to the Brazilian Grand Prix. It was a good afternoon for a bit of TV.

James wakes to the phone ringing and it dawns on him that he’s been asleep all afternoon. He crawls off the couch but misses the phone. Wandering into the kitchen, he sees the preparation for dinner; Sarah was not yet home. Could it have been Sarah trying to ring? He tries her mobile but it isn’t switched on and James begins to worry. Sarah didn’t usually stay at the pub this long, and she had so much to do. He realizes he must do something and opens the cookbook placed on the bench. He isn’t exactly sure what Sarah had planned to cook.

It is 6 o’clock and James is whipping the cream for dessert, he hears voices and the door slam shut. Laughing, Sarah runs in and gives James a big hug. James angrily pushes her away, yelling “Where the hell have you been?” Sarah, still laughing, tells James that she had so much fun drinking with the girls that she invited Brooke and Nat back for the dinner party.

As Sarah and her friends went to freshenup, the doorbell rang. James couldn’t believe this was happening.